<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="pam-dr-snapshot">
    <title>Disaster recovery using a snapshot</title>
    <shortdesc>Full disaster recovery is possible using a snapshot. You must create a new cluster to
        recover to, then follow the process outlined below to recover your instance from a snapshot. </shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author type="creator">Mindy Moreland</author>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2021/04/15"/>
        </critdates>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <note>The option to use a different supported architecture (Legacy, Standalone, HA) than
                the one you used to create the snapshot when setting up a new system as part of
                Disaster Recovery will be added in a future release.</note>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Set up a new cluster to house the recovered instance following the system
                    requirements for your applications.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To recover using a snapshot saved to a <b>host path</b>, ensure user/group 1001
                    has full access on all nodes by running:</cmd>
                <info>
                    <codeblock translate="no">chown -R 1001:1001 /&lt;PATH/TO/HOSTPATH></codeblock>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Configure the new cluster to connect to your snapshot storage location. Run the
                    following to see the arguments needed to complete this task:</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>
                        <codeblock translate="no">kubectl kots -n default velero configure-{hostpath,nfs,aws-s3,other-s3,gcp} --help</codeblock>
                    </p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Run <codeph translate="no">kubectl kots get backup</codeph> and wait for the
                    list of snapshots to become available. This might take several minutes. </cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Start the restoration process by running <codeph translate="no">kubectl kots
                        restore --from-backup &lt;BACKUP NAME></codeph>.</cmd>
                <info>The restoration process takes several minutes to complete. When the <ph
                        conkeyref="ProductNames/pam_long"/> UI is available, use it to monitor the
                    status of the application.<note>When restoring, wait for all restores to
                        complete before making any changes. You can wait for completion
                        via:<codeblock translate="no">kubectl wait --for=condition=Ready pod -l velero.io/backup-name --timeout 5m</codeblock></note></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If the new cluster's hostname is different from the old one, in the <ph
                        conkeyref="ProductNames/pam_long"/> UI, update the
                        <uicontrol>Hostname</uicontrol> on the <uicontrol>Config</uicontrol> tab,
                    click <uicontrol>Save Config</uicontrol>, and then redeploy the application.
                </cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
