<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="high-availability">
    <title>How to install a load balancer</title>
    <shortdesc>After the initial installation process is complete, create a highly available <ph
            conkeyref="ProductNames/cd"/> architecture by adding a load balancer and additional
        control nodes. </shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author type="creator">Mindy Moreland</author>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2020/10/20"/>
        </critdates>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq>Review the architecture diagram for <xref
                href="cd-architecture-tls.dita#cd-architecture-tls/ha-diagram">Installation with a
                proxy or load balancer using enhanced TLS</xref>.</prereq>
        <context/>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create a load balancer for your <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/pam_long"/>
                    cluster.  Depending on the <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/puppet"/>  products you
                    are installing forward the relevant ports. For more information, see <xref
                        keyref="pam-port-forwarding"/>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Add the IP address of the control node on which <ph
                        conkeyref="ProductNames/pam_long"/> is installed to the load balancer.
                </cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Verify that load balancer health checks are succeeding.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Update the DNS entry for the <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/pam_long"/> service
                    that you created in step 1 of the installation instructions. This entry must now
                    point to the load balancer's IP address.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Add at least two additional control plane nodes to your cluster.</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>In the platform admin console, click <uicontrol>Cluster
                                Management</uicontrol>. Your <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/cd"/>
                            control node's details are listed here.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Click <uicontrol>Add a node</uicontrol>. Select <uicontrol>Master
                                Node</uicontrol> and wait for the platform admin console to generate
                            a customized installation command for you. Copy the command.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>SSH into each new control plane node and run the command. The
                            installation process takes a few minutes. A <codeph translate="no">node
                                joined successfully</codeph> message is printed when the process is
                            complete.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Verify that your cluster now has at least three nodes by running
                                <codeph>kubectl get nodes</codeph>.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Add the new control plane nodes to the load balancer.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <result>Your <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/cd"/> installation is now configured for high
            availability. </result>
    </taskbody>
</task>
