<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="pam-upgrade-legacy">
    <title><ph conkeyref="ProductNames/pam_long">online </ph> legacy upgrades</title>
    <shortdesc> Use this method to upgrade <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/pam_long">online </ph> from a
        version installed before April 2021. </shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author type="creator">michael.mcloughlin@puppet.com</author>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2021-04-19"/>
        </critdates>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>The legacy version reflects an older configuration that used <ph
                    conkeyref="ProductNames/ceph"/> 1.0 which hosted data directly on the file
                system. <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/puppet"/> no longer recommend this for new
                installs, but maintain it to support existing installs and ensure other components
                can be kept up-to-date.</p>
            <p>To upgrade a legacy version of <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/pam_long">online </ph> on
                nodes with internet access:</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>On your node (or control plane node if you have a HA deployment), rerun the
                    installation script, passing in any arguments you included when installing for
                    the first time:</cmd>
                <info>
                    <codeblock translate="no">curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/puppet-application-manager-legacy | sudo bash</codeblock>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If a new version of <ph conkeyref="ProductNames/kubernetes"/> is available, the
                    systems provide upgrade scripts to run on each node in your cluster. </cmd>
                <info>Node draining is performed as part of a <ph
                        conkeyref="ProductNames/kubernetes"/> upgrade. The node draining process can
                    take several minutes to complete. <note>During the <ph
                            conkeyref="ProductNames/kubernetes"/> upgrade process, nodes are not
                        able to properly route network connections. If you have a HA deployment,
                        make sure you have load balancers or a multi-node fail-over process in
                        place, or schedule downtime before upgrading. </note></info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
